# IOT_BASED_SMART_ENERY_MANAGMENT
        Increasing economic growth and consumption patterns are leading to ever growing demand for energy.  Energy is very important aspect for any household, industries etc. Managing the energy efficiently and conserving it intelligently for appliances is very much important. The energy usage is directly affected with coal, oil and so towards power generation.
          Towards this, there has been lot of research work carried out in developing some smart lightning system pertain to classroom for conserving the energy. In one another research, researchers have developed Android based Smart home system for monitoring the usage of power to avoid any kind of anomaly.
       In none of the research, researchers have worked towards automating the appliance control towards conserving the energy. Most of them concentrate on controlling the appliances using android devices.
              IoT or internet of things is an upcoming technology that allows us to control hardware devices through the internet. Here we propose to use IoT in order to control home appliances, thus automating modern homes through the internet. This system uses three loads to demonstrate as house lighting and a fan. Our user-friendly interface allows a user to easily control these home appliances through the internet. For this system we use an Arduino Uno.
              The energy meter is connected to the arduino through an opto-coupler circuit. This connection is established to provide the pulses from the energy meter to the arduino. The arduino receives these pulses from the meter and counts them. The number of pulses depends on the energy consumption of the customer. The software will display the parameters like number of units consumed by the end user, rate of the unit of the electricity etc. All the information of the end user.
